Background: Depression and anxiety are leading causes of disability but they often remain undetected and untreated. Using smartphone and wearable devices may offer a unique source of data to detect moment by moment changes in risk factors associated with mental disorder.

AIM: Study is aimed to explore the extent to which data from smartphone could predict symptoms of depression and anxiety.

-> study was done of 60 adults (24-68)
-> 30-day period
-> location(GPS), smartphone usage(total usage time and frequency), activity(step count and metabolic equivalent), sleep, heart rate
-> Also Participants were prompted to report their daily mood by some self-reported assesments of depression, anxiety and stress (DASS-21)

Results: Multilevel models demonstrated a significant negative association between the variability of locations visited and symptoms of depression (beta = −0.21, p = 0.037) and significant positive associations between total sleep time and depression (beta = 0.24, p = 0.023), time in bed and depression (beta = 0.26, p = 0.020), wake after sleep onset and anxiety (beta = 0.23, p = 0.035) and HRV(heart rate variability) and anxiety (beta = 0.26, p = 0.035). A combined model of smartphone and wearable features and self-reported mood provided the strongest prediction of depression.

About Location Data
->One source of data that has yielded promising results in identifying those suffering from mental disorders is location data derived from smartphone global positioning systems (GPS)
found that regularity of participants' 24-h movement patterns (Correlation_r = −0.63), the variance of locations visited (r = −0.58) and the proportion of time spent at home (r = 0.49) were related to depressive symptom severity.


the paper initially discussed about GPS based location sensing and showed that the corellation results of mental disorder with location data were promising.
then their was discription of most widely used sensor - the accelometer sensor and wrote how their is a strong association bw acc based acitvity and decreased rates of depression.
After than their were para about how sleep alterations are highly prevalent in mental disorders.
then their was discussion on Heart rate variability(HRV) and several studies have demonstrated that lower HRV is also associated with increased symptoms of depression, anxiety.

Questionaries (Phsycological servey)
Some questionaries were also used like (DASS-21 depression anxiety stress scale) and also participants were asked to report daily mood. To assess participant mood, notifications were sent by the Delphi app asking participants to report their mood 3 times per day (EMA ecological momentary assesment)


With regards to smartphone usage features, we found no significant relationship between smartphone usage duration or smartphone usage frequency and symptoms of depression, anxiety and stress.


As compensation for participating in the study all participants received a personalized mental health and well-being report reviewed by a clinical psychologist (L.B.S.) at the end of the study.

We then applied a K-means clustering algorithm (49) to the stationary state data samples to identify the locations where participants spent the majority of their time.

